Get zone the last lecture I explained how observables work in a very condensed manner let's simply see
it in action.
What do you think about that.
So you see it in action with first of all need some data.
So let's switch back to firebase and go to the database section there.
Now there you have the choice between two databases.
The real time data and the cloud firers store.
It's still in beta at the point of time recording this.
But it should be safe to use and it is the next gen database offering by firebase.
So let's click try fires door and there let's actually start in test mode.
Now here important.
Anyone can read or write your database.
So this is really only for us now to get started quickly.
We will later switches to lock mode to make sure that only offene cable users can read and write the
data.
For now let's start in test mode here.
This will now wish in the fire store for us and prepare everything so that we can use it when everything
is prepared.
This is how the cloud firestorm looks like.
Now how does the cloud firestorm actually work.
The official docs are a great place to learn more but let me quickly walk you through the core concepts
and then we'll show you the example of the docs because they're really great to understand how cloud
Firestar works.
And a great place for you to dive deeper.
So classifiers fires tornadoes freak kinds of turns when working with well cloud fires firestorm collections
which you could compare to folders on your operating system documents which you can well compare to
documents on your operating system which are organized in folders or collections in this case and data
inside a document.
Now that's a really good picture to understand what we're working with.
The idea of falling in the fire story if you store documents and you end a document could be the data
about one single user multiple users would have multiple documents.
Now documents are part of collections.
You must have documents in a collection collection.
Remember it's just a folder.
So in this example your we have a user's folder with two documents two users.
Now you can also have collections which are nested though you can't have a collection inside a collection.
But as a child of a document.
So what you can actually have if you scroll down to hierarchical data is you can have a Rooms folder
so a collection with Room A and B which are both documents but where Room A might have a message just
subcollection.
So debt collection is part of the document which is part of a collection.
And you always have this alternating pattern of collection document collection document.
Now what's the data then the data is what's inside a document besides any possible sub collections.
So in this case your room A has the data name which holds a value of my chat room.
And then additionally also has the subcollection.
Now the data in the document really is like in a javascript object or to be precise like Chase and data
key value pairs.
This is the cloud fire story.
It's not meant to store files.
By the way you don't store images there.
It's there to store data text data if you want.
So this is to cloud firestorm in a nutshell.
And again you can dive deeper into firebase in general if you're interested.
But angle of fire is now what I want to have a look at.
But to do that we should go back to our console and simply add our first collection.
Now remember I want to set up some data which we can use to populate our away level exercise data.
So I would simply named is available exercises now click next.
And now it allows me to create a new document.
It actually is able to generate an ID for that document automatically which you might want to do.
And then you can assign key value pairs.
For example if you have a look at our code each exercise of us has an idea.
Now here we had a clearly readable one.
But we can take the automatically generated one and then we have a name duration and calories.
So let's now create this here too.
Let's add a name and the first one should be crunches and it is history.
Now let's add another field here.
That field is the duration.
It's not a string but a number.
And for crunches we had 30 seconds.
So let's enter 30.
Last but not least we have the calories.
The calories for crunches are also a number.
And there it was eight.
As you can see.
So this is our collection.
And if you want you can of course also assign your own unique ID here and use crunches again instead
of the automatically generated one.
I will use that automatically generated one.
This prevents collisions of our data.
So that is our first document.
If we had save now it will get created and you can now see the collection at the document in the collection.
And as you can see you can now add more fields or sub collections does this alternating pattern that
you can follow.
But of course here I don't need some collections.
So we got more than one exercise though.
So let's quickly create documents for the ABA exercises.
So here we have the name field and the name was touched hos.
We can also already remember the duration which was 180 calories which were 15.
So let me quickly enter the name then the duration 180.
Though that is a number and the calories which was 15 also a number by the way.
In my case here I m whip's I am using the same structure for all my documents.
They all have a name calories and a duration.
This is not required though you could have different fields for different documents.
Firestorm is a schema less database here however it makes sense to use the same because well my exercises
just happened to be in the same structure.
So let's create the next the exercise side lungis.
So here the name is side lungis and then we got 120 and 18.
So let's quickly add this here.
Let's add a field duration is the number 120 and then 18 for the calories.
So here let's quickly add calories.
Number 18 and with that we got created.
Now on to the last data piece by piece.
Let's copy Burpy here.
Add a document create an ID automatically and create our name Burpy is.
And for Burpy we have a duration of sixty eight calories.
So let's a side iteration which is a type of number 60 and then calorie is also a number.
And that was eight.
And with that we created all the data we use in our application in the database.
Firebase offers us tick West now just is how do we connect angular to that.
The answer of course is angular fire.
And we're going to install and use it in the next lecture as.